topology a
the throughput between switches can be measures using iperf and the latency can measured using ping.

ping sends a message from the source to the destination, and receives a message from the destination. ifhost 1 (h1) is connected to switch 1 (s1) and host 3 (h3) is connected to switch 2 (s2), and s1 and s2 are connected by a link, we can calculate the latency by using ping. if we ping h3 from h2, we have to cross the link between switches s1 and s2, and our response time of the command "h1 ping h3" returns an average rtt of 80 ms, we now have our rtt between links. just to be sure, we can ping from h2, which is also connected to s1, to ping h3, as it will be using the same switch link. The rtt of both of these pings should be the same, as the only link with latency is the link between s1 and s2. rtt is the amount of time it takes to send a message from source and for the source to receive the ack from the destination. latency is the amount of time it takes to get from point A to point B, so the latency of a link is roughly half the rtt of the ping. the latency of each link between switches is listed in the constructor of each link between switches. for example, the delay parameter of the link from s1 to s2 is set to 40ms, and the rtt of pings across this link take 80ms, giving a ping of 40ms, as expected. so yes we can expect the latency between links.

iperf can be used to verify the throughput as iperf is a netowrk tool to test maximum network throughput. when the command "iperf h1 h3" is run, the result returns the max throughput of the link, and the result is about the same as the parameter "bw" passed into the link constructor. for link s1 s2, the parameter passed is bw=20, and the iperf upload speed is 19 Mbits/s and the download speed is 20 Mbits/s, which match the bw (bandwidth) parameter of 20. for the link s2 s3, a value of 40 is passed for bw, and the iperf s2 s3 value returned is about 37 Mbits/s upload and 41 Mbits/s download. so yes we can expect the throughput between links..
